aws splunk

Splunk is a platform that makes machine data accessible and usable. By monitoring and
analyzing everything from customer clickstreams and transactions to security events and
network activity, Splunk software helps customers gain valuable Operational
Intelligence from their machine-generated data. With a full range of powerful search,
analysis, and visualization capabilities and prepackaged content for use cases, users can
quickly discover and share insights.
Splunk Enterprise enables you to search, monitor, and analyze machine data from any
source to gain valuable intelligence and insights across your entire organization. With
Splunk Enterprise on the AWS Cloud, you gain the flexibility of the AWS infrastructure to
tailor a deployment specific to your needs, and you can modify your Splunk deployment on
demand, as these needs change. Lead times waiting for hardware to change or to scale your
Splunk deployment are no longer a consideration with AWS.


how toreduce cost?





Security Checks on vx pipeline

here let me tell you how we implemted security practise for our docker applications

There are different stages defined in jenkins Pipeline

1) Checkout Application source code with Dockierfile from bitbucket
2) Build App
3)Perform Unit Test AND cod scanning	
4) Notary Signer 

Notary integrated as part of Vx artifact management implementing  CNCF The Update Framework (TUF)

xray
Run continuous vulnerability scan against all repository and block artifacts not meeting STS policy


5) Pushed signed image to Registry


Vulnerability Policy

X-Ray block vulnerable artifacts

Notary integrated as part of Vx artifact management implementing  CNCF The Update Framework (TUF)





6) Deploy container to non-production cluster (non-signed image)

7) Test the application in non-prod cluster









8) PTP sign image and promote it to production registry

PTP promote artifacts that passed all compliance as code declarative criteria, to production local repo and sign the mage with Notary service

PTP Docker Content Trust (DCT) Implementation
---------------------------------------------
1. PTP in general will pull non prod Docker Image (passed vulnerability policy) from Docker-Release registry, sign it using isolated signer and push it to Docker-Production registry.

2. X-Ray will prevent images failing defined vulnerability policies from being downloaded, thus preventing PTP from promoting vulnerable images to production registry.

3. Xray will also trigger policy driven invalidation of signatures in case of failed scans

 

9) Rule based Signing & Revocation

Vx managed service sign or revoke signature.

10) Deploy container to production cluster (signed image)

Reusable Admission Contoller (supply by platform) e.g. IBM Portieris with a webhook to enforce content trust. Only signed image with all required signatures can run.


Admission Controller

1. Enforcing content trust.

2. Allow creation of image securities policy for each Kubernetes namespace / cluster level and enforce different levels of trust for different images.

3. Enforce trust pinning, block the creation of resources that use untrusted image.









Deploy container to production cluster (signed image)

Bitbucket

Test Application in Non-Prod Cluster

Kubernetes Custom Admission Controller

Reusable Admission Contoller (supply by platform) e.g. IBM Portieris with a webhook to enforce content trust. Only signed image with all required signatures can run.

Admission Controller

1. Enforcing content trust.

2. Allow creation of image securities policy for each Kubernetes namespace / cluster level and enforce different levels of trust for different images.

3. Enforce trust pinning, block the creation of resources that use untrusted image.

Vanilla Docker Deploy without Kubernetes

Docker Content Trust (DCT) enable in Docker daemon mandating only trusted signed image can be pull and run

K8 admission controller verification of images

Kubernetes Custom Admission Controller

CVE

PTP Docker Content Trust (DCT) Implementation

1. PTP in general will pull non prod Docker Image (passed vulnerability policy) from Docker-Release registry, sign it using isolated signer and push it to Docker-Production registry.

2. X-Ray will prevent images failing defined vulnerability policies from being downloaded, thus preventing PTP from promoting vulnerable images to production registry.

3. Xray will also trigger policy driven invalidation of signatures in case of failed scans





Example for notray:

Developers pulling code from different hosting services like Docker Hub, code and artifact hosts, and 3rd party libraries.

DockerHub
Azure Container Registry
Google Container Registry
Quay Container Registry
Amazon Elastic Container Registry
GitLab Container Registry

Moving files and images around from one registry to another can create weak links in the integrity chain.

example;
if any of the user machine is comprimisted  then changes could be made and/or malicious code could be injected into an image (container, file, code, etc.)
This would be done without the user even knowing, 
the user would then upload the injected image under his account name, thereby testifying to its authenticity, and making it available to spread to more machines.


to avoid this
CodeNotary is an application for verifying continuous trust throughout the entire DevOps process.
CodeNotary is simple with 1 step to sign and 1 step to verify.
You can sign your source code, libraries, builds, and containers using the command syntax vcn sign in your CLI. The command immutably stores your signatures on the blockchain.
block chain base code authentication

Use the command vcn verify in order to verify the integrity of the digital assets you use. 
This also enables anyone to verify the authenticity of your images, containers, and code against the distributed ledger where their hashes are stored.
